---
name: Michael Zile, MD, Professor
image: images/team/ZileMichael.jpg
role: p
group: 
links:
  home-page: https://education.musc.edu/MUSCApps/facultydirectory/Zile-Michael 
---

Dr. Zile is a graduate of Rush University School of Medicine. He did his internal medicine residency at Rush Presbyterian St. Lukes Medical Center in Chicago, a clinical cardiology fellowship at Tufts-New England Medical Center in Boston and a research cardiology fellowship at the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Boston. Dr. Zile is currently the Charles Ezra Daniel professor of medicine at the Medical University of South Carolina.He also serves as the director of cardiology at the Ralph H. Johnson Department of Veteran's Affairs Medical Center in Charleston. He is an adjunct professor of bioengineering at Clemson University.Dr. Zile's research career has involved both basic laboratory research examining the mechanisms of disease development and progression and translational clinical research examining the application of these basic mechanisms to development of effective treatment methods.Dr. Zile is a recognized leader in the areas of cardiac function, congestive heart failure, diastolic heart failure and valvular heart disease. His research is supported by grants from the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, the American Heart Association, the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Medical University of South Carolina.Dr. Zile is the author of over 100 peer-reviewed publications. He is a member of a number of professional societies including the American College of Physicians, American Federation of Clinical Research, American Heart Association, American College of Cardiology, the Heart Failure Society of America, International Society of Heart Failure, and the American Physiology Society. Dr. Zile has served on the research, educational and program committees of these organizations. He serves on the editorial boards of the Journal of the American College of Cardiology and Circulation and is an editorial consultant to a number of others including Circulation Research, Journal of Clinical Investigation and the American Journal of Physiology. Dr. Zile is a member of the Association of University Cardiologists and a member of the ABIM Subspecialty Board on Cardiovascular Disease.
